RETROSTONE2.md, before:

# Build for Retrostone2

## 2 Do
[/] armbian-firstrun - enables Mali out-of-the-tree module and Bluetooth service : /usr/lib/armbian  
[/] btpatch.tar.gz - Broadcom utility to flash Bluetooth firmwares - must be extracted to /  
[/] e.py - Python script for controller buttons testing  
[ ] GuiMenu.cpp - EmulationStation GUI menu source file  
[ ] GuiMenu.h - EmulationStation GUI menu header  
[x] gpio_retrostone2-production-with-brightness.py - Enables the Retrostone GPIO controls - /home/pi/RetrOrangePi/GPIO/drivers/tz_gpio_controller.py  
[/] joystick.rules - UDEV rule to give write privileges to input : /etc/udev/rules.d/ (not tested yet)  
[x] kernel-sunxi-current.patch - Armbian kernel patch (v5.3.13) -> retrostone2-kernel.patch   
[x] retroarch.cfg - Retroarch configuration file: /opt/retropie/configs/all/  
[x] RetroStone2 Controle.cfg - Controller configuration file: /opt/retropie/configs/all/retroarch/autoconfig/
[x] retrostone2.csc - Armbian Retrostone 2 configuration - adds board to Armbian building script: build/config/boards   
[/] ropi-rs2-final.sh - simple test script (network, bluetooth, storage, audio and controls)  
[/] RS2GPIO.tar.gz - GPIO sources - /home/pi/RetrOrangePi/GPIO/  
[x] SDL_gamecontrollerdb.h - add support to Retrostone controller in SDL2 sources  
[?] sun7i-a20-retrostone2.dts - adds Retrostone DTS with backlight/LCD support -> already included in retrostone2-u-boot.patch  
[x] u-boot-sunxi-current.patch - Armbian u-boot patch -> retrostone2-u-boot.patch  

```bash
apt-get install ntpdate jq aria2 pv binfmt-support ccache gcc-11 aptly bison build-essential debian-archive-keyring debian-keyring device-tree-compiler dwarves flex gcc-arm-linux-gnueabi gcc-aarch64-linux-gnu libbison-dev libc6-dev-armhf-cross libcrypto++-dev libelf-dev libfdt-dev libfile-fcntllock-perl libfl-dev liblz4-tool libncurses-dev libpython2.7-dev libssl-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev patchutils pixz pkg-config python3-distutils qemu-user-static swig u-boot-tools uuid-dev zlib1g-dev lib32ncurses-dev lib32stdc++6 libc6-i386 python2 apt-cacher-ng
```


```bash
 ./compile.sh \
 BOARD=retrostone2 \
 USE_GITHUB_UBOOT_MIRROR=yes \
 KERNEL_ONLY=no \
 KERNEL_CONFIGURE=no \
 RELEASE=jammy \
 BUILD_DESKTOP=yes \
 DESKTOP_ENVIRONMENT=retrostone2 \
 DISABLE_IPV6=true \
 MAINLINE_MIRROR=google \
 CLEAN_LEVEL=images \
 NO_APT_CACHER=yes \
 EXTERNAL_NEW=compile \
 DESKTOP_ENVIRONMENT_CONFIG_NAME=config_base \
 DESKTOP_APPGROUPS_SELECTED=y \
 RELEASE=jammy \
 ARCH=armhf \
 EXTRAWIFI=no
```

Commit message:

Retrostone2 docs (#20)
* In which our hero updated the boardname
* In which our hero updated the documentation
* In which our hero included a splashscreen
* In which our hero updated armbian-firstlogin

RETROSTONE2.md, after:

# Retrostone2
I bought the Retrostone2 Pro years ago in the good faith the software will improve over time. Unfortunately time showed 
that there is no update of RetrOrangePi since 2019 and there is no update to be expected in the very near future.
After time I came to the conclusion that the only way to improve the Software for my Retrostone2 - which is indeed
a very nice gadget - is to create my own image.

This image is completely based on the latest Armbian. All files I created a prefixed with `retrostone2-` and I intended
to only change as minimal as possible on the existing Armbian distribution to always have a path forward.

## Things I introduced on the Armbian distribution
* [/customzation](customization): this folder holds all files to customize the image after build. It overwrites whatever there is on customization in `userpatches`
* [/retrostone2-patches](retrostone2-patches): it contains the original files and the adaptations which are needed for the Retrostone2. It helps in updating to newer versions of u-boot and kernel

## Building your own image
### What you need to have installed on your latest Ubuntu (22.04.1 LTS)
```bash
apt-get install ntpdate jq aria2 pv binfmt-support ccache gcc-11 aptly bison build-essential debian-archive-keyring debian-keyring device-tree-compiler dwarves flex gcc-arm-linux-gnueabi gcc-aarch64-linux-gnu libbison-dev libc6-dev-armhf-cross libcrypto++-dev libelf-dev libfdt-dev libfile-fcntllock-perl libfl-dev liblz4-tool libncurses-dev libpython2.7-dev libssl-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev patchutils pixz pkg-config python3-distutils qemu-user-static swig u-boot-tools uuid-dev zlib1g-dev lib32ncurses-dev lib32stdc++6 libc6-i386 python2 apt-cacher-ng
```

### Command to execute build
```bash
 ./compile.sh \
 BOARD=retrostone2 \
 USE_GITHUB_UBOOT_MIRROR=yes \
 KERNEL_ONLY=no \
 KERNEL_CONFIGURE=no \
 RELEASE=jammy \
 BUILD_DESKTOP=yes \
 DESKTOP_ENVIRONMENT=retrostone2 \
 DISABLE_IPV6=true \
 MAINLINE_MIRROR=google \
 CLEAN_LEVEL=images \
 NO_APT_CACHER=yes \
 EXTERNAL_NEW=compile \
 DESKTOP_ENVIRONMENT_CONFIG_NAME=config_base \
 DESKTOP_APPGROUPS_SELECTED=y \
 RELEASE=jammy \
 ARCH=armhf \
 EXTRAWIFI=no
```

## Known Issues
* `reboot` is actually shutting down the device
* `shutdown` is halting but not powering off
* No booting from NAND
